# Overview

The registry operator manages a singleton instance of the openshift registry.  It manages all configuration of the registry including creating storage.

On initial startup the operator will create a default image-registry resource instance based on configuration detected in the cluster (e.g. what cloud storage type to use based on the cloud provider).

If insufficient information is available to define a complete image-registry resource, the incomplete resource will be defined and the operator will update the resource status with information about what is missing.

The registry operator runs in the openshift-image-registry namespace, and manages the registry instance in that location as well.  All configuration+workload resources for the registry reside in that namespace.

# Configuration

## Registry resource

The image-registry resource offers the following configuration fields:

* ManagementState
  * Managed - the operator will update the registry as configuration resources are updated
  * Unmanaged - the operator will ignore changes to the configuration resources
  * Removed - the operator will remove the registry instance and tear down any storage that the operator provisioned.
* Logging
  * Sets loglevel of the registry instance
* HTTPSecret
  * Value needed by the registry to secure uploads, generated by default.
* Proxy
  * Not currently implemented
  * Defines the Proxy to be used when calling master api, upstream registries, etc
* Storage
  * Storagetype details for configuring registry storage, e.g. S3 bucket coordinates.
  * Normally configured by default
* Requests
  * API Request Limit details
  * Controls how many parallel requests a given registry instance will handle before queuing additional requests
* TLS
  * Determines whether the registry service uses TLS encryption.  When set to true, service serving certs are used to provider the certificate.
* DefaultRoute
  * Determines whether or not an external route is defined using the default hostname.  If enabled, the route uses re-encrypt encryption.
  * Defaults to false today
* Routes
  * Array of additional routes to create
  * User provides hostname, certificate for the route
* Replicas
  * Replica count for the registry


## Additional config resources

In addition to the image-registry resource, additional config is provided to the operator via separate configmap + secret resources located within the openshift-image-registry namespace:

### certs (configmap)

Provides additional CAs for contacting upstream registries.  Mounted to `/etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors` in the registry pod.

### image-registry-tls (secret)

Provides custom TLS certificates.  Mounted into the registry pod.  Providing this secret means service serving certificates are not used.

### image-registry-private-configuration (secret)

Provides credentials needed for storage management/access.

For S3 storage it is expected to contain two keys:
* REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_ACCESSKEY
* REGISTRY_STORAGE_S3_SECRETKEY

# Troubleshooting

The registry operator reports status in two places:

A ClusterOperator resource is defined in the cluster scope which reflects the state of the registry operator at a high level.  Retrievable via:

    oc get clusteroperators.operatorstatus.openshift.io/cluster-image-registry-operator -n openshift-image-registry -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry

Note: this will soon change to:

    oc get clusteroperators.config.openshift.io/cluster-image-registry-operator -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry

The image-registry resource itself has a status section with detailed conditions indicating the state of the managed registry, you can view this via:

    oc get imageregistries.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/image-registry  -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry


**If you cannot access your registry, check the following:**

Is the registry deployed?  Check for a registry deployment + corresponding pod in the openshift-image-registry namespace:

    oc get deployment image-registry -n openshift-image-registry
    oc get pods -n openshift-image-registry | grep image-registry | grep -v operator

**If there is no registry pod, check the deployment for any error conditions:**

    oc get deployment image-registry -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry

**If there is no registry deployment, check the image-registry resource instance for any error conditions:**

    oc get imageregistries.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io/image-registry -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry

**If there is no image-registry resource at all, check if the image-registry operator deployment exists:**

    oc get deployment/cluster-image-registry-operator -n openshift-image-registry

**If the operator deployment exists, check for the corresponding pod and, if it exists, check its logs:**

    oc get pods  -n openshift-image-registry | grep cluster-image-registry-operator
    oc logs cluster-image-registry-operator-5c8bcf89bb-4nr8p -n openshift-image-registry

**If the operator pod does not exist, inspect the deployment to determine why the operator pod was not created:**

    oc get deployment cluster-image-registry-operator -o yaml -n openshift-image-registry

**If the deployment does not exist:**

Something went wrong at the installer/CVO level that it did not deploy the image-registry operator.
